# Testpad automator

Testpad is an online course assessment portal used by Chitkara University. This Python program automates course completion by automatically submitting answers from pre-existing solutions.

<a href="https://login.testpad.chitkara.edu.in/login">
Testpad link
</a>


## Steps to run

1. Install required libraries:
`python -m pip install selenium==4.22.0`

2) Create a `.env` file with your credentials:
```
TESTPAD_EMAIL=<your_testpad_email>
TESTPAD_PASSWORD=<your_testpad_password>
```

3. Run the script
- To complete a course: open and run `complete_course.ipynb`
    - If a timeout error happens during submission of a question, the program will ask your confirmation to retry that question. This can happen if you switch focus away from browser (in non-headless mode) or due to high server load.
- To download solutions: open and run `download_answers.ipynb`
    - Folder structure generated by download_answers.ipynb (also of folders in Testpad-Solutions)
        ```
        Course name/
        Subtopic name/
            Question name/
                Answer.txt (For non-coding question)
                Question name.extension (For coding question)
        ```


## Files and file configuration
### Files:

- `complete_course.ipynb`: Automates the completion of a Testpad course using solutions from the `Testpad-Solutions` folder.
- `download_answers.ipynb`: Extracts and saves solutions for completed questions, organizing them in a folder named after course.

### File configuration:

<div style="border: 2px solid; border-radius: 8px; padding: 16px; margin-bottom: 16px;">
  <strong>Main variables:</strong>
  <ul>
    <li><code>COURSE_NAME</code>: Set this to the exact name of the course you want to complete, as it appears on Testpad.</li>
    <li><code>BROWSER</code>: Set this to choose which browser will be used for automation (default: Firefox)</li>
  </ul>
</div>

<div style="border: 2px solid; border-radius: 8px; padding: 16px; margin-bottom: 16px;">



Other options:

- `HEADLESS`:  
  This variable controls whether the browser runs in headless mode.

  Headless mode means running a web browser without a graphical user interface (GUI). In headless mode, the browser operates in the background and does not display any windows on your screen. This makes automation tasks faster and uses fewer system resources, but you cannot see the browser’s actions visually. 
  - **Enabled (default):** The browser runs in the background without opening a window. This is faster than GUI mode.
  - **Disabled (do this by setting `HEADLESS = False`):** The browser window will be visible, allowing you to watch the course completion in real time. Switch to this mode for debugging incase of errors. If you choose this option, keep the browser window in focus and avoid switching away from it, as doing so may cause errors.

- `QUESTIONS_TO_BE_SKIPPED`:
    This is a list of some questions which cannot be successfully completed due to some reason.
</div>

## Contributing
Currently, solutions are available for two courses. If you have complete solutions for additional courses (that are being currently evaluated) and would like to contribute, use the `download_answers.ipynb` program to download your solutions, move them to the `Testpad-Solutions` folder, and submit a pull request.